PSMDB-1559 Release notes 7.0.15-9 (#945)
percona/psmdb-docs: docs/release_notes/7.0.15-9.md

# Percona Server for MongoDB 7.0.15-9 ({{date.7_0_15}})

[Installation](../install/index.md){.md-button}

Percona Server for MongoDB 7.0.15-9 is an enhanced, source-available, and highly-scalable database that is a
fully-compatible, drop-in replacement for MongoDB Community Edition.

Percona Server for MongoDB 7.0.15-9 includes the improvements and bug fixes of [MongoDB 7.0.15 Community Edition](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/release-notes/7.0/#7.0.15---oct-24--2024) and supports its protocols and drivers.

## Release Highlights

!!! important

>     This release of Percona Server for MongoDB includes a fix for a security vulnerability [CVE-2024-10921](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-10921). This vulnerability allowed an authorized user to trigger server crashes or receive the contents of the buffer over-reads of the server memory by sending specially crafted requests that constructed malfolmed BSON in MongoDB. The issue is fixed upstream in versions 6.0.18 and 7.0.15. The fix is also included in Percona Server for MongoDB  6.0.18-16 and 7.0.15-9.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This release of Percona Server for MongoDB includes a fix for a security vulnerability [CVE-2024-10921](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-10921). This vulnerability allowed an authorized user to trigger server crashes or receive the contents of the buffer over-reads of the server memory by sending specially crafted requests that constructed malformed BSON in MongoDB. 
```

>     This release of Percona Server for MongoDB includes a fix for a security vulnerability [CVE-2024-10921](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-10921). This vulnerability allowed an authorized user to trigger server crashes or receive the contents of the buffer over-reads of the server memory by sending specially crafted requests that constructed malformed BSON in MongoDB. he issue is fixed and included in Percona Server for MongoDB 7.0.15-9.    

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This release of Percona Server for MongoDB includes a fix for a security vulnerability [CVE-2024-10921](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-10921). This vulnerability allowed an authorized user to trigger server crashes or receive the contents of the buffer over-reads of the server memory by sending specially crafted requests that constructed malformed BSON in MongoDB. The issue is fixed and included in Percona Server for MongoDB 7.0.15-9.    
```

>     Users running any minor version of Percona Server for MongoDB 6.0.x before 6.0.18 and Percona Server for MongoDB 7.0.x before 7.0.15 should upgrade to Percona Server for MongoDB 6.0.18-16 and 7.0.15-9, respectively, as soon as possible. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Users running any minor version of Percona Server for MongoDB 7.0.x before 7.0.15-9 should upgrade to this version as soon as possible. 
```

Make sure Percona Server for MongoDB has read permissions for the secret's metadata and the secrets engine configuration. To learn more, refer to the [documentation](../vault.md#master-key-loss-prevention). 

### Upstream Improvements

The bug fixes, provided by MongoDB and included in Percona Server for MongoDB, are the following:

* [SERVER-96419](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-96419) - Fixed the issue with improper neutralization of null bytes that may have led to buffer over-reads in MongoDB Server
* [SERVER-95279](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-95279) - Use a new C++ type for BSON field names to ensure validity

Find the full list of changes in the [MongoDB 7.0.15 Community Edition release notes](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/release-notes/7.0/#7.0.15---oct-24--2024).

## Changelog

### Improvements

* [PSMDB-1441](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PSMDB-1441) - Fixed the issue with master encryption keys getting lost when the number of created secrets exceeds the threshold by preventing a new secret creation and alerting users about it.

> * [PSMDB-1539](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PSMDB-1539) - Removed the fork:true and pidfile management to simplify migration

Reviewer 3: This fix was reverted by https://github.com/percona/percona-server-mongodb/pull/1346
